Robert Mugabe divided opinion when he was alive and that has not changed after his death.  Zimbabweans are reflecting on the legacy of the man who was their leader for 37 years. Using the hashtag #RIPMugabe some are hailing him as a hero; a defender of the dignity of black people, while others say he was a liberator who turned oppressor. A Zimbabwean lawyer, activist and critic of the governing Zanu-PF party, Fadzayi Mahere, reflected the mixed views about Mr Mugabe's legacy. End of Twitter post  by @advocatemahere Some tweeters are focusing on Mr Mugabe's economic legacy which has crippled almost every aspect of life, especially medical care. Public hospitals have been blighted by mismanagement and corruption, a situation that has resulted in poor care for patients. Doctors and nurses regularly go on strike over pay. That Mr Mugabe - a prominent Pan-African who initially greatly expanded Zimbabwe's healthcare - regularly sought treatment in Singapore and died in a foreign land is an irony that has not been lost on many. End of Twitter post  by @amaivaaaron End of Twitter post  by @s1mmb End of Twitter post  by @MGMuzenda Some Zimbabweans are also reflecting on what could have been. Mr Mugabe took over a country showing great promise in 1980 when he became prime minister. Early on he pledged reconciliation with the white minority and tried to develop Zimbabwe's economy but all his good work floundered as he focussed on a campaign of violently crushing dissent and doing whatever was needed to remain in power. End of Twitter post  by @docfarai End of Twitter post  by @ArtherChatora End of Twitter post 2 by @advocatemahere To some, however, nothing will sully Mr Mugabe's legacy as a liberator and a fighter against colonial rule and Western governments. End of Twitter post  by @nigel_waleazy End of Twitter post  by @AdvBarryRoux Bob- You are Father-Zimbabwe. 

Even if we have not honoured you with the greatest and most deserved memoirs of your... End of Facebook post  by Richard Did you live in Zimbabwe during Robert Mugabe's rule? What are you memories of that time? Share your experiences by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk. Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also contact us in the following ways: Or use the form below: If you are happy to be contacted by a BBC journalist please leave a telephone number that we can
                        contact you on. In some cases a selection of your comments will be published, displaying your name as
                        you provide it and location, unless you state otherwise. Your contact details will never be published.
                        When sending us pictures, video or eyewitness accounts at no time should you endanger yourself or others,
                        take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws. Please ensure you have read the terms and conditions. Terms and conditions The BBC's Privacy Policy