President Muhammadu Buhari has taken an early lead as votes are being counted in Nigeria's general election, amid allegations of manipulation. Mr Buhari has won seven of Nigeria's 36 states, while his rival Atiku Abubakar took two states and the capital Abuja. As results came in, Mr Abubakar's People's Democratic Party (PDP) alleged that there had been irregularities in the vote. Party chair Uche Secondus called the count "incorrect and unacceptable". He claimed there had been an "attempt by the government and other agencies to manipulate the result", but did not give any evidence. The EU, US and African Union have all expressed concern about delays and logistical problems with voting on Saturday, but no independent observers have suggested fraud. Mr Buhari, a member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) party, is seeking a second term but faces a strong challenge from Mr Abubakar. Each party has claimed that the other is working with the Independent National Electoral Commission (Inec) to influence the outcome of the vote, which was initially scheduled for 16 February but delayed at the last minute. Mr Buhari has promised to take Nigeria to the "next level" and said he would build on his accomplishments so far, while Mr Abubakar, a business tycoon, has accused the president of wasting his term in office and has pledged to get the country working again. Whoever wins in Africa's most populous nation and largest economy will have to address a range of problems including power shortages, corruption, security threats, and an economic slowdown. Final results are not expected until later in the week. But Mr Secondus has criticised the initial tallies, claiming that the governing party was using "impeachments, manipulation, incarceration" to influence the outcome. He told reporters it would be difficult for Nigeria "to accept this level of intimidation". In turn, the federal government accused the PDP of trying to "scuttle the polls" and prompt a constitutional crisis. Information Minister Lai Mohammed said the PDP had showed "disdain for the electoral process". Most of the country was calm but there were reports of attacks by the Boko Haram Islamist militant group in the north, and voter intimidation and attempts to steal ballot boxes, especially in the southern states of Rivers, Lagos, and Anambra. A coalition of civil society groups reported that a total of 16 people were killed around the country - less than in previous elections. Two people were arrested in the commercial capital, Lagos, after voters were attacked by a group of young men "brandishing weapons: cutlasses, axes and stakes", eyewitness Ralph Onodike told the BBC. "What they were saying was that if you were not [voting for the ruling party] APC, you'll be attacked," Mr Onodike, who sustained an arm injury, said. Inec said that voting had not been possible in about 8,500 of the country's 120,000 polling stations, AFP news agency reported. But Inec official Festus Okoye said the commission was "generally satisfied with the process". The initial vote was postponed early on Saturday 16 February, five hours before polls were due to open. Voters were also choosing members of the House of Representatives and Senate. The candidate with the most votes is declared the winner in the first round, as long as that person gains at least 25% of the votes in two-thirds of Nigeria's 36 states. There are 73 registered candidates in the presidential election, but campaigning has been dominated by the two political giants and the established party machines behind them. Both candidates are from the mainly Muslim north of the country. They are both in their 70s, while more than half of Nigeria's 84 million registered voters are under 35. Nigeria is Africa's largest oil producer but corruption and a failure to invest the proceeds from the industry have hampered development. It slipped into a recession in 2016 and a slow recovery has meant that not enough jobs have been created to cope with the large number of young people coming into the employment market. Currently nearly a quarter of the working age population is unemployed. Election in numbers Mr Buhari has quelled a militant Islamist rebellion in the north-east of the country, but Boko Haram remains active. There has also been an upsurge in violence in the country's Middle Belt as traditional herders and more settled farmers have clashed. Until 1999 Nigeria was governed by either short-lived civilian administrations or military rulers. But this year marks 20 years since the return of democracy. Mr Buhari was elected in 2015 - the first time an opposition candidate had defeated an incumbent to become president.